<pre>
  IIP: 9
  Title: Transaction Signature Verification for ML-DSA-87
  Author: INT Core <team@international-coin.org>
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Layer: Consensus
  Created: 2026-03-28
  License: CC0-1.0
  Requires: 2
</pre>

==Abstract==

This IIP defines the transaction digest algorithm for signature verification in INTcoin. It adapts BIP 143's approach for ML-DSA-87 (Dilithium5) post-quantum signatures, providing a deterministic method to compute the message being signed.

==Motivation==

Transaction signature verification requires a well-defined serialization of transaction data. The digest must:

* Be deterministic (same inputs produce same hash)
* Include all relevant transaction components
* Prevent signature malleability
* Support different signature hash types

==Specification==

===Signature Hash Algorithm===

The signature hash is computed as:

<pre>
sighash = SHA3-256(
    nVersion          ||  // 4 bytes
    hashPrevouts      ||  // 32 bytes
    hashSequence      ||  // 32 bytes
    outpoint          ||  // 36 bytes (txid + vout)
    scriptCode        ||  // variable
    amount            ||  // 8 bytes
    nSequence         ||  // 4 bytes
    hashOutputs       ||  // 32 bytes
    nLockTime         ||  // 4 bytes
    sighash_type      ||  // 4 bytes
)
</pre>

===Component Definitions===

'''hashPrevouts''':
<pre>
SHA3-256(txid_0 || vout_0 || txid_1 || vout_1 || ...)
</pre>
For SIGHASH_ANYONECANPAY: 32 zero bytes

'''hashSequence''':
<pre>
SHA3-256(nSequence_0 || nSequence_1 || ...)
</pre>
For SIGHASH_ANYONECANPAY, SIGHASH_SINGLE, SIGHASH_NONE: 32 zero bytes

'''hashOutputs''':
* SIGHASH_ALL: SHA3-256(all serialized outputs)
* SIGHASH_SINGLE: SHA3-256(output at same index), or 32 zero bytes if index out of range
* SIGHASH_NONE: 32 zero bytes

===Signature Hash Types===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Type !! Value !! Meaning
|-
| SIGHASH_ALL || 0x01 || Sign all inputs and outputs
|-
| SIGHASH_NONE || 0x02 || Sign all inputs, no outputs
|-
| SIGHASH_SINGLE || 0x03 || Sign all inputs, one output
|-
| SIGHASH_ANYONECANPAY || 0x80 || Modifier: sign only this input
|}

===Script Code===

The scriptCode is the executed script with:
* OP_CODESEPARATOR and preceding opcodes removed
* For standard P2PKH: the full scriptPubKey

===Differences from BIP 143===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Component !! BIP 143 !! IIP-9
|-
| Hash Function || Double SHA256 || SHA3-256
|-
| Signature Scheme || ECDSA || ML-DSA-87
|-
| Signature Size || 71-73 bytes || 4627 bytes
|-
| Public Key Size || 33 bytes || 2592 bytes
|}

==Rationale==

===Why SHA3-256?===

* Quantum-resistant (256-bit security)
* Single hash operation (more efficient than double-SHA256)
* NIST standardized
* Consistent with rest of INTcoin

===Component Caching===

hashPrevouts, hashSequence, and hashOutputs can be cached when:
* Signing multiple inputs
* SIGHASH_ALL without ANYONECANPAY

This significantly improves signing performance for transactions with many inputs.

==Backwards Compatibility==

This is a consensus rule active from genesis. All INTcoin transactions use this signature hash algorithm.

==Reference Implementation==

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/script/interpreter.cpp src/script/interpreter.cpp]
* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/script/sign.cpp src/script/sign.cpp]

==Test Vectors==

See the test suite for comprehensive signature hash test vectors.

==References==

* [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0143.mediawiki BIP 143: Transaction Signature Verification]
* [[iip-0002.mediawiki|IIP-2: Post-Quantum Signature Scheme (ML-DSA-87)]]

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
