<pre>
  IIP: 3
  Title: Version Bits with Timeout and Delay
  Author: INT Core <team@international-coin.org>
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Layer: Consensus
  Created: 2026-03-28
  License: CC0-1.0
  Requires:
  Replaces:
</pre>

==Abstract==

This IIP describes a mechanism for deploying soft forks using version bits in block headers to signal miner readiness. It is adapted from BIP 9 for INTcoin.

==Motivation==

Soft fork deployments require coordination across the network. Version bits provide a parallel signaling mechanism allowing multiple soft forks to be deployed simultaneously, with clear activation thresholds and timeout conditions.

==Specification==

===Parameters===

Each soft fork deployment is specified by the following parameters:

* '''name''': A short identifier for the deployment
* '''bit''': The bit position in nVersion (0-28)
* '''starttime''': The minimum median time past (MTP) for activation to begin
* '''timeout''': The time after which the deployment is considered failed
* '''threshold''': The number of blocks required for activation (default: 90%)
* '''min_activation_height''': Minimum block height for activation

===States===

A deployment progresses through the following states:

# '''DEFINED''': The deployment is defined but not yet started
# '''STARTED''': Signaling has begun (MTP >= starttime)
# '''LOCKED_IN''': Threshold reached, waiting for activation
# '''ACTIVE''': Deployment is active
# '''FAILED''': Timeout reached without activation

===State Transitions===

<pre>
   DEFINED
      |
      | (MTP >= starttime)
      v
   STARTED -----> FAILED (MTP >= timeout)
      |
      | (threshold reached)
      v
   LOCKED_IN
      |
      | (next retarget period && height >= min_activation_height)
      v
    ACTIVE
</pre>

===Signaling===

Miners signal readiness by setting the appropriate bit in the block's nVersion field:

<pre>
nVersion = 0x20000000 | (1 << bit)
</pre>

The top 3 bits are reserved (001), leaving bits 0-28 for signaling.

===Threshold Calculation===

Within each retarget period (2016 blocks on mainnet):

<pre>
signal_count = count of blocks with bit set
if signal_count >= threshold:
    state = LOCKED_IN
</pre>

===INTcoin Parameters===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Network !! Period !! Threshold
|-
| Mainnet || 2016 blocks || 1815 (90%)
|-
| Testnet || 2016 blocks || 1512 (75%)
|-
| Signet || 2016 blocks || 1815 (90%)
|-
| Regtest || 144 blocks || 108 (75%)
|}

===Current Deployments===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Name !! Bit !! Start Time !! Status
|-
| testdummy || 0 || (varies by network) || Testing
|-
| extended_opreturn || 4 || Genesis || Draft (IIP-47)
|}

==Rationale==

Version bits provide several advantages over previous deployment methods:

# '''Parallel Deployments''': Up to 29 soft forks can be signaled simultaneously
# '''Clear Thresholds''': Miners explicitly signal readiness
# '''Timeout Safety''': Failed deployments automatically expire
# '''Miner Coordination''': Reduces risk of chain splits

The 90% threshold ensures strong consensus before activation.

==Backwards Compatibility==

Version bits are backwards compatible. Nodes that do not understand a deployment will:
* Accept blocks regardless of version bits
* Continue normal operation after activation

Old nodes may not enforce new rules after activation, potentially following an invalid chain.

==Reference Implementation==

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/consensus/versionbits.cpp src/consensus/versionbits.cpp]
* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/consensus/versionbits.h src/consensus/versionbits.h]

==References==

* [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0009.mediawiki BIP 9: Version bits with timeout and delay]

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
