<pre>
  IIP: 43
  Title: Non-Segwit Output Script Descriptors
  Author: INT Core <team@international-coin.org>
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Layer: Applications
  Created: 2026-03-28
  License: CC0-1.0
  Requires: 35
</pre>

==Abstract==

This IIP specifies pk(), pkh(), sh(), multi(), sortedmulti(), combo(), raw(), and addr() output script descriptors for INTcoin, using ML-DSA-87 keys with OP_CHECKSIG_DILITHIUM.

==Motivation==

These descriptors allow wallets to represent standard INTcoin output scripts in a portable format, enabling:
* Hardware wallet coordination
* Watch-only wallet import
* Account-level backup and restore
* PST (Partially Signed Transaction) workflows

==Specification==

===pk(KEY)===

Pay to public key script.

<pre>
Script: <pubkey> OP_CHECKSIG_DILITHIUM
</pre>

===pkh(KEY)===

Pay to public key hash script.

<pre>
Script: OP_DUP OP_HASH160 <20-byte-hash> OP_EQUALVERIFY OP_CHECKSIG_DILITHIUM
</pre>

Addresses start with int1q... (Bech32).

===sh(SCRIPT)===

Pay to script hash.

<pre>
Script: OP_HASH160 <20-byte-hash> OP_EQUAL
</pre>

===multi(k,KEY1,...,KEYn)===

k-of-n multisig script.

'''WARNING:''' INTcoin does NOT support OP_CHECKMULTISIG for spending. Use PST for multi-party signing.

===sortedmulti(k,KEY1,...,KEYn)===

k-of-n multisig with lexicographically sorted keys.

Same spending restrictions as multi() apply.

===combo(KEY)===

All script types for a single key (P2PK and P2PKH).

===raw(HEX)===

Raw hex-encoded script.

===addr(ADDR)===

Script corresponding to an address.

===HD Path Convention===

<pre>
m / purpose' / coin_type' / account' / change / index
m / 44'      / 2210'      / 0'       / 0      / 0
</pre>

Example descriptor with origin:
<pre>
pkh([01234567/44'/2210'/0']ixpub1.../0/*)#checksum
</pre>

===Key Derivation===

INTcoin uses SHA3-256 (SHAKE256) for HD derivation. '''Important:''' Child public key derivation is NOT supported with Dilithium5. Hardened derivation is always required.

===INTcoin Adaptations===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Aspect !! BIP 381 !! IIP-43
|-
| Key type || ECDSA secp256k1 || ML-DSA-87
|-
| Pubkey size || 33 bytes || 2,592 bytes
|-
| Extended keys || xpub/xprv || ixpub/ixprv
|-
| Checksig opcode || OP_CHECKSIG || OP_CHECKSIG_DILITHIUM
|-
| Multisig || Fully supported || Scripts only (not spendable)
|-
| HD derivation || BIP32 HMAC-SHA512 || SHA3-256 based
|}

==Reference Implementation==

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/script/descriptor.cpp src/script/descriptor.cpp]

==References==

* [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0381.mediawiki BIP 381: Non-Segwit Output Script Descriptors]
* [[iip-0035.mediawiki|IIP-35: Output Script Descriptors]]

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
