<pre>
  IIP: 2
  Title: Post-Quantum Signature Scheme (ML-DSA-87)
  Author: INT Core <team@international-coin.org>
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Layer: Consensus
  Created: 2026-03-09
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

==Abstract==

This IIP specifies the use of ML-DSA-87 (formerly known as Dilithium5) as the signature scheme for INTcoin transactions. ML-DSA-87 is a NIST-standardized post-quantum digital signature algorithm that provides security against both classical and quantum computer attacks.

==Motivation==

Classical digital signature schemes like ECDSA are vulnerable to attacks from sufficiently powerful quantum computers using Shor's algorithm. While large-scale quantum computers do not yet exist, the "harvest now, decrypt later" threat model means that cryptocurrency transactions signed today could potentially be forged in the future.

INTcoin addresses this threat from genesis by using exclusively post-quantum cryptography, ensuring long-term security of all transactions.

==Specification==

===Algorithm Parameters===

INTcoin uses ML-DSA-87 (NIST FIPS 204), which provides approximately 256 bits of classical security and 128 bits of quantum security.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Parameter !! Value
|-
| Public Key Size || 2592 bytes
|-
| Secret Key Size || 4896 bytes
|-
| Signature Size || 4627 bytes
|-
| Security Level || NIST Level 5
|}

===Key Generation===

Keys are generated using the ML-DSA-87 key generation algorithm as specified in FIPS 204. Random bytes are sourced from the operating system's cryptographically secure random number generator.

'''Important''': Unlike ECDSA, ML-DSA-87 public keys cannot be derived from secret keys. Both must be stored together.

===Signature Creation===

Signatures are created over the transaction's signature hash using the ML-DSA-87 signing algorithm:

<pre>
signature = ML-DSA-87.Sign(secret_key, sighash)
</pre>

Where <code>sighash</code> is computed as:

<pre>
sighash = SHA3-256(serialized_transaction || input_index || hash_type || prevout_script || amount)
</pre>

===Signature Verification===

Verification uses the ML-DSA-87 verification algorithm:

<pre>
valid = ML-DSA-87.Verify(public_key, sighash, signature)
</pre>

===Script Integration===

A new opcode <code>OP_CHECKSIG_DILITHIUM</code> (0xAD) is defined for signature verification:

<pre>
<signature> <pubkey> OP_CHECKSIG_DILITHIUM
</pre>

The opcode:
# Pops the public key (2592 bytes) from the stack
# Pops the signature (4627 bytes) from the stack
# Computes the signature hash
# Verifies the signature using ML-DSA-87
# Pushes 1 (true) or 0 (false) to the stack

===Address Format===

INTcoin addresses use Bech32m encoding with the following prefixes:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Network !! Prefix !! Witness Version
|-
| Mainnet || int1 || 1
|-
| Testnet || tint1 || 1
|-
| Signet || sint1 || 1
|-
| Regtest || rint1 || 1
|}

The address payload is the SHA3-256 hash of the public key.

==Rationale==

ML-DSA-87 (Dilithium5) was chosen for the following reasons:

# '''NIST Standardization''': Selected as the primary signature algorithm in NIST's Post-Quantum Cryptography standardization process.
# '''Security Margin''': Level 5 provides the highest security level, appropriate for a cryptocurrency.
# '''Performance''': Reasonable signing and verification times on modern hardware.
# '''Maturity''': Extensively analyzed by the cryptographic community since 2017.

The larger key and signature sizes compared to ECDSA are an acceptable trade-off for quantum resistance. Block size limits have been adjusted accordingly.

==Backwards Compatibility==

This is a consensus rule that applies from the genesis block. There is no backwards compatibility concern as INTcoin has never used any other signature scheme.

==Reference Implementation==

The reference implementation uses liboqs 0.15.0:

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/crypto/dilithium.cpp src/crypto/dilithium.cpp]
* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/wallet/wallet.cpp src/wallet/wallet.cpp]

==Test Vectors==

Test vectors are provided in the INTcoin test suite:

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/test/crypto_tests.cpp src/test/crypto_tests.cpp]

==References==

* [https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/fips/204/final NIST FIPS 204: Module-Lattice-Based Digital Signature Standard]
* [https://pq-crystals.org/dilithium/ CRYSTALS-Dilithium]
* [https://github.com/open-quantum-safe/liboqs liboqs - Open Quantum Safe]

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
