<pre>
  IIP: 4
  Title: Duplicate Transaction Prevention
  Author: INT Core <team@international-coin.org>
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Layer: Consensus
  Created: 2026-03-28
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

==Abstract==

This IIP prevents duplicate transaction identifiers in the blockchain by rejecting blocks that create outputs with the same txid as existing unspent outputs. It is adapted from BIP 30 for INTcoin.

==Motivation==

Transaction identifiers (txids) are computed as the SHA3-256 hash of the serialized transaction. Without safeguards, it is theoretically possible for two different transactions to have the same txid, or for the same transaction to appear multiple times in the blockchain.

Duplicate txids cause problems for:
* UTXO set management (which output does the txid reference?)
* Wallet software (transaction history confusion)
* Block explorers (ambiguous transaction lookups)

==Specification==

===Consensus Rule===

A block is invalid if it contains a transaction whose txid matches an existing transaction in the UTXO set that has unspent outputs.

Formally, for each transaction <code>tx</code> in a block:

<pre>
if UTXO_SET.has_unspent_outputs(tx.GetHash()):
    return INVALID
</pre>

===Exception===

Transactions that are exact duplicates (same bytes) are permitted only if:
* All outputs of the previous transaction have been spent
* The duplicate transaction is a coinbase (only theoretically possible)

===Interaction with IIP-5===

With IIP-5 (block height in coinbase), coinbase transactions are guaranteed unique because:
* The coinbase scriptSig must contain the block height
* Each block has a unique height
* Therefore, each coinbase has a unique txid

This makes the duplicate coinbase case impossible after IIP-5 activation.

==Rationale==

===Why SHA3-256?===

INTcoin uses SHA3-256 for transaction hashing instead of double-SHA256:
* Quantum resistance (256-bit security)
* Single hash operation (more efficient)
* NIST standardized

===UTXO Set Check===

Checking only unspent outputs is sufficient because:
* Spent outputs are removed from the UTXO set
* Re-creating a spent txid does not cause ambiguity
* This is more efficient than checking all historical transactions

==Backwards Compatibility==

This rule applies from the genesis block. There is no backwards compatibility concern as INTcoin has never allowed duplicate transactions.

==Reference Implementation==

The check is performed in block validation:

<pre>
// In ConnectBlock()
for (const auto& tx : block.vtx) {
    if (!tx->IsCoinBase()) {
        for (size_t i = 0; i < tx->vout.size(); ++i) {
            if (utxo_set.HaveCoin(COutPoint(tx->GetHash(), i))) {
                return state.Invalid(BlockValidationResult::BLOCK_CONSENSUS,
                                     "duplicate-txid");
            }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/consensus/tx_verify.cpp src/consensus/tx_verify.cpp]

==References==

* [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0030.mediawiki BIP 30: Duplicate transactions]
* [[iip-0005.mediawiki|IIP-5: Block Height in Coinbase]]

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
