<pre>
  IIP: 18
  Title: Anti-Fee-Sniping Protection
  Author: INT Core <team@international-coin.org>
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Layer: Peer Services
  Created: 2026-03-28
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

==Abstract==

This IIP recommends setting nLockTime to the current block height for regular transactions to discourage fee sniping by miners. It is adapted from BIP 326 practices for INTcoin.

==Motivation==

Fee sniping is a theoretical attack where miners intentionally re-mine recent blocks to capture high-fee transactions. By setting nLockTime to the current height, transactions cannot be included in earlier blocks, reducing the incentive for this attack.

==Specification==

===Wallet Behavior===

When creating a transaction, wallets SHOULD:

# Set nLockTime to the current block height
# Set at least one input's nSequence to a value less than 0xffffffff

===Randomization===

To improve privacy, wallets MAY occasionally:
* Set nLockTime to (current_height - random(0, 100))
* This prevents fingerprinting based on exact locktime

===Exceptions===

Wallets MAY omit anti-fee-sniping when:
* Creating time-locked transactions (CLTV/CSV)
* User explicitly requests immediate finality
* Creating replacement transactions (RBF)

==Rationale==

===Why This Works===

A transaction with nLockTime=1000 cannot be mined in block 999 or earlier. This means:
* Block 1000 miners cannot profitably re-mine block 999 to steal the tx
* The incentive for fee sniping is eliminated

===Privacy Considerations===

Without randomization, nLockTime reveals when the transaction was created. Randomization provides plausible deniability while maintaining protection.

==Reference Implementation==

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/wallet/transactionbuilder.cpp src/wallet/transactionbuilder.cpp]

==References==

* [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0326.mediawiki BIP 326: Anti-fee-sniping protection]

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
