<pre>
  IIP: 31
  Title: Message Signing
  Author: INT Core <team@international-coin.org>
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Layer: Applications
  Created: 2026-03-28
  License: CC0-1.0
  Requires: 2
</pre>

==Abstract==

This IIP describes message signing for INTcoin using ML-DSA-87 signatures. It adapts BIP 322 concepts with self-contained signatures.

==Motivation==

Message signing proves address ownership for:
* Identity verification
* Contract signing
* Proof of reserves
* Authentication systems

==Specification==

===Signature Format===

Unlike ECDSA, ML-DSA-87 signatures cannot recover the public key. INTcoin uses self-contained signatures:

<pre>
<pubkey_len (2 bytes, big-endian)> <pubkey (2592 bytes)> <signature (4627 bytes)>
</pre>

Total size: ~7221 bytes, ~9628 characters when Base64 encoded.

===Message Hashing===

<pre>
message_hash = SHA3-256("INTcoin Signed Message:\n" || message)
</pre>

===Signing===

<pre>
signature = ML-DSA-87.Sign(secret_key, message_hash)
output = encode_pubkey_len(2592) || pubkey || signature
result = Base64(output)
</pre>

===Verification===

<pre>
input = Base64Decode(signature_string)
pubkey_len = decode_uint16_be(input[0:2])
pubkey = input[2:2+pubkey_len]
sig = input[2+pubkey_len:]

message_hash = SHA3-256("INTcoin Signed Message:\n" || message)
address_hash = SHA3-256(pubkey)
expected_address = bech32m_encode(hrp, 1, address_hash)

if expected_address != claimed_address:
    return Invalid("address mismatch")

if !ML-DSA-87.Verify(pubkey, message_hash, sig):
    return Invalid("signature invalid")

return Valid
</pre>

===Address Verification===

The signature contains the public key, from which the address is derived. Verification confirms the derived address matches the claimed address.

==Rationale==

===Why Self-Contained?===

ML-DSA-87 (unlike ECDSA) cannot recover public keys from signatures. Including the public key:
* Enables verification without wallet access
* Supports offline verification
* Maintains standard verification flow

===Size Considerations===

The ~9.6KB Base64 signature is large but acceptable for:
* File-based signatures
* QR code chunking
* Text transmission

==Reference Implementation==

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/wallet/signmessage.cpp src/wallet/signmessage.cpp]

==References==

* [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0322.mediawiki BIP 322: Generic Signed Message Format]
* [[iip-0002.mediawiki|IIP-2: Post-Quantum Signature Scheme]]

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
