<pre>
  IIP: 40
  Title: Disallow 64-Byte Transactions
  Author: INT Core <team@international-coin.org>
  Status: Final
  Type: Standards Track
  Layer: Consensus
  Created: 2026-03-28
  License: CC0-1.0
</pre>

==Abstract==

This IIP defines a consensus rule rejecting transactions with serialized size of 64 bytes or less, preventing attacks where crafted transactions could be confused with merkle tree inner nodes.

==Motivation==

INTcoin's merkle tree uses SHA3-256, producing 32-byte hashes. Each merkle inner node is the hash of two child nodes concatenated (64 bytes total). A 64-byte transaction could create ambiguity between transaction hashes and merkle node hashes.

Attack vectors prevented:
* Transaction-Merkle Confusion
* SPV Proof Manipulation
* CVE-2017-12842 class attacks

==Specification==

===Consensus Rule===

Transactions MUST have a serialized size of at least 65 bytes.

<pre>
MIN_TX_SIZE = 65
</pre>

===Validation===

<pre>
// In CheckTransaction
if (GetSerializeSize(tx) < MIN_TX_SIZE) {
    return state.Invalid("bad-txns-undersize");
}
</pre>

===Minimum Transaction Components===

{| class="wikitable"
|-
! Component !! Size (bytes)
|-
| nVersion || 4
|-
| vin count || 1
|-
| prevout txid || 32
|-
| prevout index || 4
|-
| scriptSig length || 1
|-
| nSequence || 4
|-
| vout count || 1
|-
| nValue || 8
|-
| scriptPubKey length || 1
|-
| nLockTime || 4
|-
| '''Minimum Total''' || '''60'''
|}

A minimal valid transaction with empty scripts is approximately 60 bytes. Adding any meaningful script data exceeds the 65-byte minimum.

===Why 65 Bytes?===

* Merkle inner nodes are exactly 64 bytes
* Any transaction >= 65 bytes cannot be confused with a merkle node
* The minimal useful transaction is approximately 60 bytes anyway

==Backwards Compatibility==

This is a consensus rule tightening. No previously valid transaction should be affected because:
# The minimum useful transaction with any script data exceeds 64 bytes
# No known transaction type can be smaller than 65 bytes while remaining valid

==Reference Implementation==

* [https://github.com/INT-devs/intcoin/blob/main/src/consensus/dos_protection.h src/consensus/dos_protection.h]

==References==

* [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0053.md BIP 53: Disallow 64-Byte Transactions]
* [https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-12842 CVE-2017-12842]

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
